# Algorithms as a technology
## 1.1 Section exercises

### Give a real-world example that requires sorting or a real-world example that requires computing a convex hull.

A real world example that requires sorting could be an application that has a catalog of books and we want to present our
catalog in alphabetical order. An example that requires computing a convex hull could be an application that tracks endangered
species roaming area, to better understand what borders need to be protected.

### Other than speed, what other measures of efficiency might one use in a real-world setting.

Besides speed, space is the next most important. We want our algorithms to run fast, but also to consume as little resources as possible.
By resources, that is, memory, hard disk space or even network bandwidth.

### Select a data structure that you have seen previously, and discuss its strengths and limitations.

The linked list is a data structure that keeps a collection of elements in consecutive order using a pointer reference. One of the biggest
strengths of the linked list is that the size of the linked list can grow as needed and inserting or deleting and element is fairly simple by
just removing the reference. One of its limitations is that accessing a particular element of the list requires to transverse potentially all
elements in the list, since no random access is possible - we can't simply say "I want the fourth element of the list", we must go in order from
the first until the fourth element of the list.

### How are the shortest-path and traveling-salesman problems given above similar? How are they different?

Both, the shortest-path and the traveling-salesman calculates the shortest distance between points where multiple routes are possible and it is
required to find the most efficient one. The difference between them is that on the traveling sales-man, we are required to find shortest-paths
for multiple points at the time and we must return to the origin. In the shortest-path we will end up with a single line from point A to B,
where on traveling-salesman we will end up with a cycle going from point A, to B, to C, to D, to N points and back to A at the end.

### Come up with a real-world problem in which only the best solution will do. Then come up with one in which a solution that is "approximately" The best is good enough.

A real-world problem where precision is needed could be in operations where monetary transactions happen, nobody would like to be charged an
"approximately" correct amount, specially if it's more than it should be. Any operations that requires the use of a vast amount of high prime
numbers (like cryptography) can be done with an "approximately" algorithms. The miller-rabin test can almost guarantee that a number is prime,
but it's not 100% accurate, but that is good enough.
