# The Role of Algorithms in Computing
## 1.2 Section exercises

### Give an example of an application that requires algorithmic content at the application level, and discuss the function of the algorithms involved.

A chess videogame. The application needs to compute the most effective movements and predict how the game may branch out, based on the possible outcomes, the application should take the best movement from all the possible scenarios.

### Suppose we are comparing implementations of insertion sort and merge sort on the same machine. For inputs of size n, insertion sort runs in 8n^2 steps, while merge sort runs on 64nlgn steps. For which values of n does insertion sort beat merge sort?

We need to find a value for n where both order of growths are the same, doing it algebraically is too complex (needs Lambert W function). So we graph both of them and see where they instersect, it intersects at a value between 43 and 44. Let's calculate both order of growths for n = 43 and n = 44:

For n = 43:

Insertion Sort: 8(43 ^ 2) = 14792
Merge Sort:     64(43)(lg43) = 14933.09

The values are pretty close but at 43, insertion sort is still faster.

Now for n = 44:

Insertion Sort: 8(44 ^ 2) = 15488
Merge Sort:     64(44)(lg44) = 15373.09

Now merge sort is faster when n = 44. Then, insertion sort is faster when n < 44.

### What is the smallest value of n such that an algorithm whose running time is 100n^2 runs faster than an algorithm whose running time is 2^n on the same machine.

We can use the same method as before and graph both functions to see where they intersect. If we graph them, we see that they intersect at a value between 14 and 15. Let's calculate both at n = 14 and n = 15:

For n = 14:

Algorithm #1: 100(14 ^ 2) = 19600
Algorithm #2: 2 ^ 13 = 16384

Algorithm 2 is faster when n = 14, now for n = 15:

Algorithm #1: 100(15 ^ 2) = 22500
Algorithm #2: 2 ^ 14 = 32768

Algorithm 1 is now faster than algorithm 2.

14 is the smallest value where algorithm #1 will run faster than algorithm #2.
